it is 1400 GMT that is 400 p.m. in Gaza
we are awaiting the release of a further
42 Palestinian prisoners in Israel and
14 captives being held by Hamas that is
expected to happen within the coming
hours but we do not have a specific time
frame on Friday 39 Palestinian women and
children were released from Israeli
jails there have been celebrations
across the occupied West Bank as those
who were being were reunited with their
families meanwhile two dozen civilian
captives have been freed by Hamas and
taken out of Gaza 13 of them are Israeli
women and children 10 are Tha Nationals
one is from the
Philippines because of the ceasefire
deal more trucks carrying humanitarian
Aid have been rolling into Gaza through
the Rafa border crossing with Egypt
Palestinians have struggled to survive
with shortages of fuel water food and
medical supplies many Palestinians who
are able to move around now for the
first time in nearly two months are just
seeing the extent of Destruction across
the Gaza Strip those trying to make the
journey back to their homes have
expressed shock at how little was left
of
them I came to my house to take out some
things but I did not find anything the
Israeli Army destroyed the place in a
way that we did not
expect I was displaced in one of the
shelters in kanun and I came to my house
but when I saw the destruction I was
shocked the destruction is very large
tears are coming down alone God suffices
us and that's all I can
say Muhammad Jam is in occupied East
Jerusalem Muhammad we turn to you as it
is 400 p.m. where you are 14 GMT
yesterday that was a key time because
that was the time when we were expecting
to see captives being released from Gaza
and that would start the domino effect
of Palestinian prisoners is being freed
from Israeli jails today we have no such
timestamp for what for when all of this
is supposed to happen again for round
two so tell us what you know what we can
expect and also what we don't
know so serel what we have been
expecting throughout the day is that the
transfer of those captives being held by
Hamas in Gaza would begin at this hour
400 p.m. local time uh that's what was
reported in the Israeli media that's
what we have been led to believe by
Israeli officials we have not yet gotten
any confirmation that that process has
started but we expect that we would
start getting details emerging from the
Israeli government probably any minute
now whether there's been a delay or
whether it's gone as as had been planned
prior to now um I will tell you that
what we have heard thus far is that
there is to be a transfer of at least 13
Israeli captives that have been held in
Gaza that they would be taken as was the
case Yesterday by the icrc the Red Cross
transferred from Gaza to the raah border
crossing then transferred into the hands
of the Israeli Army the Israeli Army
would then begin the process of
verifying the identities of those
captives and then they would transfer
them back into Israel and take them to
various hospitals most of them around
the Tel Aviv area and in Tel Aviv so
that's what we're expecting to hear we
have not gotten any indications from
Israeli officials that there have been
difficulties or why there is this
potential delay why we have not heard
anything up until now but we will be
chasing with those government officials
we'll get you those details as we know
them now one other thing I want to
mention sirel is that what we have read
in the Israeli media throughout the day
is that most of the Israeli hostages
that will be released today are from the
kibutz beeri in southern Israel and that
is a community that was one of the
hardest hit on October 7 so that's the
extent of what we know we are aware that
the family members of those captives
that are scheduled to be released today
that they were informed as of last night
once Israeli officials got the list from
Hamas so obviously they are very much
expecting to be seeing their family
members later this evening um one more
thing to mention once we get clarity as
to whether or not those captives in Gaza
have been transferred uh we then we'll
start getting details about the
Palestinian prisoners what we've been
told thus far is it could be 39 pal pal
inian prisoners as was the case
yesterday or it could be as many as 42
we're told that at least six of those
Palestinian prisoners that will be
released by Israel will be transferred
back to occupied East Jerusalem which is
where we are so we'll be getting more
about that in the hours to come as well
and we'll be getting you those details
and to our viewers as well s I'm
Muhammad Jam jum reporting minutes after
4M local time in uh occupied East
Jerusalem thank you very much Muhammad